Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going
to explain an American science fiction
action film called “Elysium,” Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care!
The premise of the movie is set in the year
2154, when the earth is overpopulated and
polluted beyond rehabilitation. Many new diseases
have evolved, making half of the population sick.
What once used to be beautiful cities have
turned into slums. Society has divided into
the higher and lower classes, and the financial
gap between the two is exponential. The wealthy
and powerful people have created their own
new place to live, far away from the poor.
They live in a space station that lies on the
earth’s orbit called the Elysium. Elysium is a
utopian city with no sadness or sickness. It has
all kinds of luxurious resources, and among them,
the most important is the facility of “medbay”.
Medbays are privately owned medical chambers
that can instantly heal any disease known to
humanity or any form of physical injury.
While life on Elysium is magical, life on
the earth is the exact opposite. People
are governed by mindless robots police who beat
them in the name of the zero-tolerance policy.
At the beginning of the movie, a little boy
named Max Da Costa and his friend Frey Santiago
read the stories about Elysium and its lavish
life. Max promises Frey that he will take her
to the Elysium one day. The little boy lives in
an orphanage that is run by a nun whom he loves
a lot. His ambition in life is to visit the
Elysium one day. However, many years later,
Max has grown up to be a criminal. He and Frey
have lost contact while his mother-like nun
is no more. Max is trying to recover from
his criminal past and is doing a normal job
at Armadyne corporation, a factory where weaponry
for Elysium and robots police are manufactured.
One day while going to work, some robot
police approach Max and break his wrist
for being disobedient. He goes to the hospital
and is surprised to see his old friend Frey,
who has grown up to be a nurse. The two catch up
while Frey treats Max’s injuries. Max tries to ask
her out, but she leaves to tend to another patient
before he can. We see that the hospital is packed
with people, which is considered normal because
of the overpopulation and diseases. Max then goes
to his work, where half of his pay is deducted for
being late. The CEO of the Armadyne corporation
is a resident of Elysium named John Carlyle. He
stays on earth to look after the factories and
only cares for the company’s profit. He has no
sympathy for his worker’s problems at all.
A criminal named Spider has formulated an
illegal emigration operating system for the
people on the earth to enter Elysium. But the
process is very risky as only some who depart
make it to the Elysium without harm. First,
they acquire the Elysium identification
brands on their wrist, which allows them to
access any facility on Elysium. After that,
the people board three rustic-looking
spaceships and head for the space station.
As the ships get closer, the Defence Secretary
of Elysium Jessica Delacourt is alerted about
the breach. She contacts C.M. Kruger, a rogue
sleeper agent and her right-hand man on Earth.
Kruger immediately obeys Jessica’s orders and
fires an air missile launcher to the ships.
Two of them get shot but the missile misses the
third ship. In the two ships that are destroyed,
forty six people are killed. Fortunately, the
last ship lands on Elysium. However, before the
people aboard the ship can run away, Jessica
orders the guards to apprehend everyone in it.
The police choppers and robots chase the
Earthers and arrest them. The only two
people able to make it to a medbay are a mother
and her sick daughter. The daughter is healed in
the medbay because of her identification
band. When she gets out of the machine,
the mother is delighted to see that she can walk
properly. Right then, the robot police attest the
two. The Earthers who resist are killed while
the others are deported back to the earth.
Back on earth, Max is at his work when a door at
his workstation jams. His supervisor asks him to
go inside to fix it, even though it is extremely
dangerous. Max obliges but as he goes inside,
the door shuts close and he is blasted with a wave
of lethal radiation. A while later, he is dragged
from the chamber and sent to a medical unit. He
is then told by another robot that he will soon
experience catastrophic organ failure and has
only five days to live. CEO John comes sees Max
lying on a bed but cares more about the bedding
being ruined than Max’s health. A robot gives
Max some pills to help him with the pain and will
keep him physically functional until he dies.
Right after the last mission, Jessica is summoned
by Patel, the President of Elysium. He isn’t fond
of Jessica’s methods and doesn’t support the
irresponsible killing of people. But Jessica
claps back by saying that she won’t allow
the homes of their future children, Elysium,
to be raided by the Earthers. Patel, however,
threatens Jessica to fire her if she causes more
casualties and orders her to stop using Kruger
immediately. Back on the earth, Kruger is told
to return all his weapons because his service
isn’t needed anymore. He is enraged and feels
betrayed by Jessica. Meanwhile, Max's criminal
friend Julio sees him limping back from work
and goes to help him. After Julio helps him to
take his medicines, Max asks him to find Spider.
He is now desperate to go to Elysium as soon as
possible and use the medbay to heal himself.
Max and Julio go to meet Spider and ask him to
send Max to Elysium in turn for a favor Max did
to him three years ago. Spider, on the other
hand, offers him a task to plug into the brain
of one of Elysium's high-ranking officials and
obtain passcodes and other secret data. Spider
wants to use the information to acquire money from
the official’s bank account. If Max can do that,
Spider will make sure Max gets to Elysium and
gets his treatment. Max has no other way to save
his life, so he accepts the offer. It turns out
the high-ranking official that Max has to get the
information from is John, the man who cared about
bedsheets more than Max’s life. However, Spider
knows that Max cannot fulfill his mission in his
physical condition. So, he performs a procedure
on him to attach a third-generation powered
exoskeleton to his body and connect a neural
chip to his brain. The exoskeleton gives Max
the strength that is equal to a police robot.
In the following scene, we see CEO John meet
Jessica who is fed up with the president’s
ideologies. She wants John to reboot
and override Elysium's computer core
and reinstate her as the new president. John
agrees to do the job and goes back to the earth
to reboot the computer program as per her demand.
He also programs a denial system that would kill
anyone attempting to download data from his
brain. He then boards a shuttle for a flight
to Elysium but the shuttle is shot by Max and
his team before it can leave earth. They find
the CEO and are about to extract the required
information from him but a droid confronts them
and a shootout ensues; John is shot in the
process. They manage to defeat the droid and
get the required information from John’s brain.
Jessica is altered about John’s situation and she
immediately sends Kruger to get the people who
attacked John. Kruger and his men arrive at the
location and start firing at Max and his team. All
of his teammates, including his best friend Julio,
are killed but Max manages to flee from the scene.
Jessica is now stressed knowing that someone has
access to her top-secret mission to overthrow the
president. She jams all the signals in the area
so no other spaceships can leave. Meanwhile,
Kruger also gets his hands on the data that
was extracted from John’s brain. He realizes
the data is actually Jessica’s secret program
and encourages his men to retrieve more
of it, presumably for his own benefit.
In the meantime, a heavily injured Max goes to ask
for help from Frey. She brings him to her house
and dresses his wounds. He wakes up the following
day to see a little girl in front of him. It turns
out that she is Frey’s daughter who is ill from
leukemia and has very little time to live. Frey
asks Max to take her to Elysium but Max claims
that he is being pursued by very dangerous people
and if they are associated with him, they will
be killed too. After he leaves, Kruger and his
men arrive looking for Max. They take Frey and her
little daughter hostage when they find out Max was
treated there the previous night. After a while,
Max goes to Spider with the code he retrieved from
John’s brain but is disappointed to find that
all air spaces have been jammed by Jessica.
This means that Spider cannot keep his end of
the offer and Max cannot be sent to Elysium.
Spider goes through the code in Max’s brain and is
beyond surprised to see that it is code to reset
and reboot the whole Elysium. If they can
manage to rewrite the codes and make everyone
the citizen of Elysium, all humans could enjoy
the medbay facility, leaving no more diseases
in the world. Spider tries to convince Max to
wait until they can override Elysium’s system
which might take five days. But with hours to
live, Max wants to sell the data to Jessica in
turn for a chance to use the medbay and
save his life. Max realizes that Kruger
needs him alive so when he comes to get him, Max
simply turns himself in. Inside Kruger’s ship,
he is surprised to see Frey and her daughter
abducted. Kruger tells Jessica about them finding
the code and Jessica lifts the air space jam,
allowing Kruger’s ship with Frey, her daughter,
and Max to come to Elysium. This also gives Spider
and his men a chance to pursue Max. They get into
a spaceship with the intention of finding Max and
using the code for the benefit of humanity.
Back in Kruger’s ship, he misbehaves with Frey
which angers Max. As Max retaliates, their
little argument turns big and a shootout occurs
inside the ship. Max throws a grenade at Kruger,
blowing half of his face off. The ship’s
control system is damaged and it crashes onto
a lavish house in Elysium. Jessica orders for
everyone aboard the ship to be brought to her.
Frey brings her daughter out of the destroyed
ship and goes inside the nearest house looking
for a medbay. She finds one and tries to use it
on her daughter but it doesn’t work since she
doesn't have citizenship. The guards eventually
catch all of them and take them to Jessica.
Kruger’s men put Kruger in a medbay and fix his
face. Meanwhile, Jessica puts Max on a machine to
extract all the information from his head but
the extraction is sure to kill him. She asks
her men to go ahead with it because Max’s life
is worth nothing to her. After Jessica leaves,
Kruger’s men take Frey and her daughter back.
The doctors are about to extract the information
from Max’s brain and kill him, but, he manages to
free himself in time. At the same time, Jessica
belittles Kruger for crashing his spaceship
and threatening the life of Elysium’s citizens.
As she insults him, an enraged Kruger stabs her
in the neck. He plans to rewrite the code and make
himself the president of Elysium. Kruger’s men set
off to kill all the politicians in the facility
while he goes to rewrite the code.
Meanwhile, Spider and his men also land on
Elysium looking for Max. They are in the facility
tracking his location. Max, on the other hand,
is looking for Frey when he sees that
Spider is in the facility through a screen.
He contacts him and tells him to go forward with
the plan of making everyone Elysium’s citizen,
and thus eradicating all diseases from the earth.
Max then rescues Frey and meets Spider at the
same time. He sends Frey to the nearest medbay
and asks her to wait until they recode everyone
as Elysium’s citizen so her daughter can be
healed. After that, Max, along with Spider make
their way to recode the system but are caught
by Kruger on the way. Max and Kruger get into
an intense fight but Max is easily overpowered.
However, the course of the fight changes when
Max manages to take off Kruger’s neural chip
and thus dismantling his whole system.
After defeating him, Max and Spider get to the
mainframe and get ready to extract the code from
Max’s brain. However, since CEO John had coded
that anyone who extracts the code would be killed,
the only way to save everyone else in the
world is for Max to die. In his limited time,
Max calls Frey and tells her that he had kept
the promise he made to her when they were little.
He then looks at the earth and compares it to a
locket his nun caretaker had given her way back.
After the emotional moment, he presses the button
to reboot Elysium’s system and kills himself in
the process. The system then registers every
human as a citizen. Freya’s daughter is healed
in the medbay. Meanwhile, many ships are sent
to the earth with medbays to help people recover
from diseases and injuries.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave
a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.